.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii gamessq.1
.\"
.TH GAMESSQ 1 "July 1, 2008" "version 1.1" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
gamessq \- Queue manager for GAMESS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gamessq [-g] [-h] [-p
.I num
.B ] [
.I command
.B ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gamessq
is a queue manager GAMESS jobs. It allows the user to enqueue several jobs
which will be run automatically without any further user interaction. It
runs with a backend daemon so that even when the user closes the program or
logs out (under Linux and Mac OS X) the queue will remain active and keep
running the jobs.

It has a GUI interface which can be launched by either running gamessq with
no command or with the -g option. It also has a command line driven interface
that allows the user to manage the queue without having an available graphical
interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -g
Run in gui mode. GUI mode is enabled by default if no command is given.
.IP -h
Print the help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-p\  num,\  --procs= num
Run the newly added jobs on the given number of processors.
.SH COMMANDS
The following are the valid commands for managing the queue. If no command is
given, it will try to add any filenames given as arguments to the queue via the
gui.
.TP
.BI add\  files...
Adds the given input files to the queue. The files are copied from their
current locations into a temporary spool directory, and the actual GAMESS
calculations are made from there. This way changes made to the file does not
make any difference to gamessq once it has been enqueued. If no commands are
passed to gamessq, it assumes you want to add the given files.
.TP
.BI clear
Clears all finished jobs from the queue. A job is considered finished if it
completed normally, was canceled or quit with an error. Once a job is removed
from the queue all temporary input and output data is removed, and cannot be
recovered.
.TP
.BI list,\ ls
Lists all the jobs in the queue.
.TP
.BI pause\  job\ IDs...
Pauses the given jobs in the queue. If the job is running, all processes
associated with the job are suspended.
.TP
.BI remove,\ rm\  job\ IDs...
Removes the given jobs from the queue. Once a job is removed from the queue all
temporary input and output data is removed, and cannot be recovered.
.TP
.BI resume\  job\ IDs...
Resumes the given jobs in the queue.  If the job was running when it was
paused, all processes associated with the job are resumed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IR ~/.gamessq
Per user configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI gamessq\  file1.inp\ file2.inp
Adds the given files to the queue via the gui.
.TP
.BI gamessq\ add\  file1.inp\ file2.inp
Adds the given files to the queue.
.TP
.BI gamessq\ -g\ add\  file1.inp\ file2.inp
Adds the given files to the queue and then starts the GUI.
.TP
.BI gamessq\ pause\  1\ 5
Pauses the jobs with ID's 1 and 5.
.SH BUGS
None known at this time, but since this project is in somewhat early
development, there could be several that have yet to be found.

Bug reports should be sent to Brett Bode (brett@scl.ameslab.gov)

